Idempotent writer (#204)
confluentinc/event-streaming-patterns: docs/event-processing/idempotent-writer.md

---
seo:
  title: Idempotent Writer
  description: An Idempotent Writer produces an Event to an Event Streaming Platform exactly once.
---

# Idempotent Writer

> A writer produces [Events](../event/event.md) that are written into an [Event Stream](../event-stream/event-stream.md), and under stable conditions, each Event is recorded only once.

Reviewer: Please lowercase any occurrence of "event" unless they are linked.

Author: @miguno IIUC this is in contrast to how Ben has been copy editing all the patterns.

Reviewer: Then this should be changed in the copy-editing. :)

> However, in the case of an operational failure or a brief network outage, an [Event Source](../event-source/event-source.md) may need to retry writes. This may result in multiple copies of the same Event ending up in the Event Stream, as the first write may have actually succeeded and the client simply did not receive the response. This type of duplication is one of the perils of distributed systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in the case of an operational failure or a brief network outage, an [Event Source](../event-source/event-source.md) may need to retry writes. This may result in multiple copies of the same Event ending up in the Event Stream, as the first write may have actually succeeded even though the producer did not receive the acknowledgement from the [Event Streaming Platform](../event-stream/event-streaming-platform.md). This type of duplication is a common failure scenario in practice and one of the perils of distributed systems.
```

## Problem
How can an [Event Streaming Platform](../event-stream/event-streaming-platform.md) ensure that an Event Source does not write the same Event more than once?

## Solution
![idempotent-writer](../img/idempotent-writer.svg)

Generally speaking, this can be addressed by native support for idempotent clients.

> This means that a writer may try to produce an Event more than once, but the Event Streaming Platform detects and discards duplicate write attempts for the same Event. The resulting Events in the Event Stream are unique, ensuring that a consumer's computed results remain accurate.

Reviewer: > ... ensuring that a consumer's computed results remain accurate.

This is not true in isolation. It only prevents producer-side duplicates from happening. The wording suggests, however, that the idempotent writer solves any issues for the consumer-side, too. This pattern, in the Considerations section, plus the text in the Idempotent Reader pattern emphasizes this bit.

Author: @miguno agree.  Removing sentence

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: Sorry, I forgot this in my review yesterday:  Please also add ksqlDB and Kafka Streams. This can be very short, but we should tell the reader how to enable this via EOS for those two as well.

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: Sorry, I forgot this in my review yesterday: Please also add ksqlDB and Kafka Streams. This can be very short, but we should tell the reader how to enable this via EOS for those two as well. With links to docs.

Author: 👍 @miguno done in latest commit

To make an Apache Kafka® producer idempotent, configure your producer with the following setting:

```
enable.idempotence=true
```

> The Kafka producer tags each batch of Events that it sends to the Kafka cluster with a sequence number. The broker uses this sequence number to enforce deduplication of Events sent from this specific producer. Each batch's sequence number is persisted to the replicated log, so that even if the leader broker fails, any new leader will also know if a given batch is a duplicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka producer tags each batch of Events that it sends to the Kafka cluster with a sequence number. Brokers in the cluster use this sequence number to enforce deduplication of Events sent from this specific producer. Each batch's sequence number is persisted to the replicated log, so that even if the leader broker fails, any new leader will also know if a given batch is a duplicate.
```

Reviewer: > Each batch's sequence number is persisted to the replicated log, so that even if the leader broker fails, ...

The reader will not understand what "the replicated log" refers to. Same for "leader broker". Either explain with a few words, or add links to learn more.

Author: Updated in latest commit

## Considerations

> Enabling idempotency for a Kafka producer not only ensures that duplicate Events are fenced out from the log, it also ensures that they are written in order. This is because the brokers accept a batch of Events only if its sequence number is exactly one greater than that of the last committed batch; otherwise, it results in an out-of-sequence error.

Reviewer: > fenced out from the log

I suggest to rename "the log" to "the topic".  We are normally using the term "stream" (when we talk in the abstract) or "topic" (when we talk specifically about Kafka). We rarely use the term "log", and it's confusing in this pattern as we are not explaining what "the log" actually refers to.

Author: Updated in latest commit

> Exactly-once semantics (EOS) allows [Event Streaming Applications](../event-processing/event-processing-application.md) to process data without loss or duplication, ensuring that computed results are always accurate. Any solution that requires strong EOS guarantees should also enable EOS at all stages of the pipeline, not just on the writer. An Idempotent Writer is therefore typically combined with an [Idempotent Reader](../event-processing/idempotent-reader.md) and transactional processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exactly-once semantics (EOS) allow [Event Streaming Applications](../event-processing/event-processing-application.md) to process data without loss or duplication. This ensures that computed results are always consistent and accurate, even for stateful computations such as joins, [aggregations](../stream-processing/event-aggregator.md), and [windowing](../stream-processing/event-grouper.md). Any solution that requires EOS guarantees must enable EOS at all stages of the pipeline, not just on the writer. An Idempotent Writer is therefore typically combined with an [Idempotent Reader](../event-processing/idempotent-reader.md) and transactional processing.
```

## Solution
![idempotent-writer](../img/idempotent-writer.svg)

Generally speaking, this can be addressed by native support for idempotent clients.
This means that a writer may try to produce an Event more than once, but the Event Streaming Platform detects and discards duplicate write attempts for the same Event.

## Implementation
To make an Apache Kafka® producer idempotent, configure your producer with the following setting:

```
enable.idempotence=true
```

The Kafka producer tags each batch of Events that it sends to the Kafka cluster with a sequence number. Brokers in the cluster use this sequence number to enforce deduplication of Events sent from this specific producer. Each batch's sequence number is persisted so that even if the [leader broker](https://www.confluent.io/blog/apache-kafka-intro-how-kafka-works/#replication) fails, the new leader broker will also know if a given batch is a duplicate.

To enable [exactly-once processing guarantees](https://docs.ksqldb.io/en/latest/operate-and-deploy/exactly-once-semantics/) in ksqlDB or Kafka Streams, configure the application with the following setting, which includes enabling idempotence in the embedded producer:

```

> processing.guarantee=exactly_once

Reviewer: The docs link for ksqlDB above says that it is indeed this setting.

For Kafka Streams, however, the current docs at https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/streams/developer-guide/config-streams.html#processing-guarantee ask for a different setting:

```
processing.guarantee= exactly_once_v2
```

Reviewer: So, there's a bug in our documentation. The correct setting for KSTreams (as of today) is:

```
processing.guarantee=exactly_once_beta
```

The `*_v2` variant will be introduced in AK 3.0 through KIP-732.

Reviewer: In this case, I would stick with the v1 version of EOS for now, because it doesn't have the (current) "beta" suffix like the v2 version of EOS.

TL;DR:
```
processing.guarantee=exactly_once
```
(this gives you EOS v1)

Author: @miguno to confirm, no change required to this PR?

Reviewer: So, no change is needed for now. We can add the `_v2` setting once it's available officially.

Reviewer: Yes, no change is required. I already Approved subsequently.
